By Krishnee NaidooA manhunt has been launched for four AK47-wielding gunmen who opened fire on police officers, critically wounding a SAPS member in the KwaMashu area on Sunday morning.Police spokesman, Brigadier Jay Naicker, confirmed the shooting and said that the officer was shot in the neck and was rushed to hospital for urgent medical treatment.It is believed that the Durban Flying Squad officers were conducting a routine patrol along Malandela Road in KwaMashu when they noticed a silver Opel Corsa bakkie with no canopy and four unknown suspects inside.The suspects are alleged to have spotted the police members and opened fire on them. The injured cop has been identified as W/O Ash Ramkisson. He sustained two bullet wounds to his neck and was rushed to Umhlanga Hospital by Netcare 911 paramedics who were escorted by police and members of local security company, KZN VIP.W/O Ramkisson is said to be in a critical condition in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and had undergone emergency surgery. Spokesman for KZN VIP, Gareth Naidoo, said, Various police personnel and members of KZN VIP responded quickly to the scene. Time was of the essence and the critically wounded police officer needed urgent medical care. A medical helicopter was summoned but due to the time factor, the injured officer was rushed via ambulance to the hospital. W/O Ramkisson is wished a speedy recovery. Naidoo said a SAPS helicopter stood off thereafter. The road was closed off as police conducted their investigations. Local pilot and security boss at Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA), Prem Balram, was also contacted by police to help in the search of the suspects and provide air support. After receiving calls from the police for air support, I immediately lifted off from the RUSA helipad. An aerial search was conducted in the KwaMashu vicinity but reaped no success. It is gravely concerning that there are ruthless suspects out there armed with heavy artillery who are prowling the streets at free will. It is hoped that police will find the gunmen as soon as possible and they will face the harshest punishment meted out by the court. We, at RUSA, bid the critically injured police officer all the best in his recuperation. The vehicle that the suspects were travelling in has not been recovered and no arrests have been made.W/O Ramkisson was one of four police officers shot over the weekend. On Saturday morning, a police officer was shot dead whilst patrolling in the Empangeni area. He foiled an apparent armed robbery and was fatally wounded during a shoot-out with suspects. Yesterday (Monday) morning, two policemen were shot during an incident in Gingindlovu, on the N2. One officer has since died while his partner remains in hospital.