Three armed intruders were shot and killed by a Glen Anil resident and ex-police officer who claimed it was self-defence after shots were fired in his direction during a house robbery last Thursday night. Police state that the man allegedly witnessed the three suspects breaking into his neighbour&#8217;s home by using a four-pound hammer to open the front gate. He allegedly began shouting at the robbers over his fence, when he saw them place a gun to his neighbour&#8217;s head, demanding keys to his safe.Greenwood Park SAPS spokesperson, Warrant Officer Leon Audh said the suspects began shooting at the vocal neighbour who retaliated in kind. &#8220;As the suspects attempted to flee, they fired shots at the neighbour who returned fire and shot all three suspects in the chest,&#8221; said W/O Audh. Paramedics responded to the crime scene at 11 Welwitchia Avenue and found the three men with life-threatening wounds after the shooting. &#8220;Tragically two men died at the scene due to the extensive injuries that they sustained. Paramedics worked fervently to stabilise the third victim and placed him on a ventilator,&#8221; said Netcare 911&#8217;s Chris Botha.The third suspect, who was taken to hospital under police guard, died a few hours after his arrival. The three deceased are aged between 33 and 39. Police managed to recover a stolen police blue light, a knife, three unlicensed firearms and 22 live rounds of ammunition as well as a VW GTI Golf 7 that was hijacked in the Chatsworth area last month.&#8220;The firearms will be sent for ballistics to determine if they were used in any other crime in the country. Charges of house robbery, attempted murder, three counts of possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunitions, possession of suspected stolen property, possession of dangerous weapon and inquest have been opened for investigation by Greenwood Park SAPS,&#8221; said provincial SAPS spokesperson, Major Thulani Zwane.KwaZulu-Natal Police Commissioner, Lieutenant General Mmamonnye Ngobeni asked the members of the community to be vigilant and ensure that their houses are safe. We applaud the commitment of the community member who assisted a fellow neighbour which shows the success of community policing, she said.