A Sunford father suffered a brutal assault, allegedly at the hands of his neighbour over a fireworks-related dispute, that saw his blood spilt and which left his toddler daughter traumatised. The neighbour, who is believed to have been intoxicated at the time of the incident, is alleged to have irresponsibly thrown a lit firecracker on the ground near the complainant s landlord who was carrying the child at the time. The explosion shocked the 16-month old ailing baby who has since been left traumatised. The injured dad, who did not wish to be named for fear of reprisal, said he cannot believe how the incident escalated into such a vicious bloody attack .Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, the emotional resident said, It was around 7:30pm, a few days before Diwali, when my landlord s son-in-law dropped my wife and baby at home whilst I was still in church. The neighbour saw him carrying the baby but still had the audacity to throw the firecracker in their direction. My landlord s son-in-law took off with the neighbour but he just retaliated by swearing at him. My baby was hysterical at the time. When I arrived home, I was told of the incident and I was furious. As a father, my first concern was for my child. She is a toddler who suffers with juvenile arthritis and takes medication three times a day. For her having had to endure this unnecessary trauma really upset me and I decided to address the matter with my neighbour, the protective father said.He added, I went to speak to a former colleague at the residence about the incident. When I mentioned what happened, the perpetrator, who was there at the time, became very defensive. I told him off but he became very aggressive and was spoiling for a fight. His dad, a police officer, who was off-duty at the time, did not attempt to diffuse the situation but rather provoked the matter by suggesting a re-enactment of the fireworks explosion. At this point I tried repeatedly to convey that we did not appreciate him throwing fireworks at our house as it scared the baby and the dog and could damage our vehicles. The father then tried to convince his son to step away from the situation; however, he handed his glasses to his father and punched me. I tried to defend myself. He then banged me against my vehicle and when I fell to the ground he continued beating me, the complainant claimed.The beaten father sustained a laceration to his head, sprain to his left hand, and multiple bruises. He has registered a case with Phoenix SAPS. This kind of behaviour is unacceptable in our community. It is fortunate that my child wasn t physically hurt. As a father, I rushed to my baby s defense as any father would do. My baby has been affected by the episode as she doesn t sleep fitfully but awakes and screams out at every noise, the complainant further claimed.Comment from SAPS was not forthcoming at the time of going to press.