By Se-Anne RallFrom Masterchef SA to The Ultimate Braai Master, Durban&#8217;s very own Gourmet Bushie is hard at work &#8220;steaking&#8221; his claim on the foodie world. Sherwyn Weaich is no stranger to The Weekly Gazette readers, having won over the hearts of hundreds with his unique style of cooking. Se-Anne Rall recently chatted to find out more about the man behind the apron.SR: And you are? SW: Sherwyn Sean WeaichSR: Where did you grow up? SW: On the dusty streets of Newlands East. They weren&#8217;t really dusty but I was filthy after playing on the road.SR: Describe your childhood? SW: Incredible, I was surrounded by love, family and food. I was not really popular growing up in Road so my brother and cousins were my friends. The fact that they stayed three houses down from us with my grandmother in Johndory aswel. I had loads of fun and knew my cooking was good back then with me always making the bush chow. Hahaha I just realised I have been cooking in the bush a lot longer that I thought.SR: What is your fondest childhood memory: SW: It was on North pier. My father and uncle took my brother, cousin and I fishing at 2am. Not only was it freezing cold I was around the age of 9. Was it worth it? Yes Why? Those are memories I made with my family. I live and work by my code, &#8220;FOOD FAMILY &amp; FRIENDS&#8221; Did we catch anything, yes and no. We caught a cold but no fish that night. Today my cousin is no longer with us but I know he is still up to nonsense. This one is dedicated to you Wesley Weaich.SR: When did your passion for cooking begin? SW: Ahhhh my passion for cooking according to my family began at the age of two where I used to come into the kitchen and demand I cook alongside my grandmothers. I demanded real vegetables and meat. So looks like I ran a kitchen since the age of two with my two sous chefs Sandra Beyers and Lena Weaich. These two women are the foundation of my culinary journey.SR: What was your first dish? SW: It is complicated. Okay my first dish was a minced meat curry and flying saucers. Why flying saucers? Simply because my roti could kill you. Then it was lemon meringue pie. I mean every meal deserves dessert, it turned out pretty awesome too.SR: You were in the Ultimate Braai Master, how was that? SW: Ahhh television hey. Let&#8217;s just that I&#8217;ve been on quite a few shows but nothing compares to my time there. I canoed down the Orange River with South Africa to my left and Namibia to my right. I ran down the world&#8217;s highest sand dune and had a private brandy tasting on an island. Yes, I did not win but meet some amazing people and up until today we still talk and meet up talking over some food. I made koeksusters the one night over the fire and they are still trying to get the recipe out of me.SR: What was your most memorable moment in the show? SW: Honestly being eliminated. Yes, it was devastating but it also meant that I could go home and see my family and friends.SR: What has been your greatest moment thus far, as a cook? SW: Most people will think I&#8217;m going to name cooking for some high profile guest or official. Yes, I have cooked and met several international and national stars but my greatest moment as a cook thus far changes everyday. Everyday I get a message or email about how I inspire others around me to be great and that in itself is my greatest moment.SR: You&#8217;ve now launched your own brand, Gourmet Bushie, what inspired the name? SW: The Gourmet Bushie, I was in Namibia the night before I knew I was coming home. I had a beer in hand whilst staring at the stars alone. It&#8217;s what I like to call &#8216;me time&#8217;. I was in the wild, the bush, Sossusvlei lodge. I talk to myself quite often about the direction my life is going. So I had my nickname &#8216;Bushie&#8217; and my gran always told me I make simple food look Gourmet. So it stuck. I am Sherwyn Weaich and I am The Gourmet Bushie.SR: You have some big plans in the pipeline, tell us about them SW: Well as you know my team and I finished film a pilot for my new television show and my cook book is done which will be released when the show airs live. My brand is currently in talks for consulting on some of the biggest fashion events in Durban and South Africa. As you know the Good Food and Wine Show just ended so it has been a great deal of fun working with other chefs in the industry and I will be on SABC3 later this month so you will have to check out the details on my FB page. www.facebook.com/thegourmetbushieQuickfireSR: Tea or coffee? SW: Wine is always the answerSR: Peanut butter or jam SW: Jam on toast rocksSR: First thought in the morning SW: Thank you Lord for a new daySR: Favourite pair of shoes SW: My bootsSR: Worst habit SW: ProcrastinationSR: Last item on your bucket list SW: See all 7 wonders of the world. I&#8217;ve seen the eighth.