Over the past few years the music scene has witnessed the rise and conquer of Durban based alternative/melodic/electronic band, Gangs of Ballet. Comprised of Brad Klynsmith on vocals and guitar, Jonathan Rich on keyboard and synth, and Josh Klynsmith on drums and vocals, this homegrown trio have taken the industry by storm.With a vibrant energy and wealth of musically intriguing melodies, Gangs of Ballet are known to tentatively explore and defy all musically defining boundaries through an eclectic mix of alternative, melodic, anthemic, electronic and dance. Their signature sound celebrates all these elements, which are ever prominent in the band&#8217;s new, recently launched EP, Form and Function- part 1. Gangs of Ballet frontman, Brad Klynsmith, sat down to chat about the EP in and exclusive interview.TWWG: Let&#8217;s chat about your new EP release, Form and Function, part 1. This is the first of a triptych of EP releases- can you elaborate a little more on this concept and how it came about? BK: Yeah it&#8217;s new for us, it took a while for us to settle on the concept for this release but it made sense for us. This way we release new music every six months, and we don&#8217;t have the pressure of touring 12 songs for two years again. Each release will be what&#8217;s happening us us there and then and capturing that energy.TWWG: Does this EP follow any specific theme? How does the title, Form and Function, relate to that? BK: Form and Function is taken from a Bauhaus principle and there was a real synergy between the movement and its discovery of modern day design and is trying to re-invent ourselves after loosing our bass player.TWWG: When do you plan to release part 2 and part 3? BK: If all goes to plan we&#8217;ll be in studio January 2015 already for part two, can&#8217;t wait!TWWG: This is the first time you have released an EP since before your debut album in 2013. What made you decide to do this? BK: The fact that it&#8217;s one album release stretched over 18 months keeps us fresh and creative.TWWG: The key aspects that define Gangs of Ballet&#8217;s sound are present in this EP, but at the same time, it seems as if your sound is constantly evolving and exploring new parameters. Is this a conscious effort or does your it kind of just happen? BK: It&#8217;s definitely on purpose, we&#8217;re huge advocates for progression. Just as a person we&#8217;re different just after one more year under the belt wether positive or negative. We&#8217;re all in a constant state of progression and so it&#8217;s not surprising when your art does the same.TWWG: What inspired the writing process for Form and Function? BK: Certainly listening to new music, leaning more towards and electronic sound and then having to re-work our sound with one person less on stage has been a positive creative process.TWWG: How did you find the recording process to this EP? Did it differ significantly to the process of recording a full length album (obviously aside from the duration in which it would take)? Was it less pressured? Did you have more freedom in terms of time? Did this affect the writing and recording? BK: We had the privilege of working with Denholm Harding as producer and Brendyn Rossouw engineering and the environment was really up beat and creative. They are both just brilliant at what they do! It was a super tight time frame we had to work in so it was just super focus and smash out these tracks, which I think we prefer. We spent a lot of time before the recording in Pre-pro so it was just a matter of capturing it right.TWWG: Did you hit the road straight after the EP was released? BK: Man, we&#8217;ve been working so hard since it dropped which is part of a release. The first two weeks saw us do around 44 interviews and travel between JHB and CT. It&#8217;s been fun!TWWG: Where are you now and what are you up to? BK: Back home for now and already planning the next recording.TWWG: What is on the cards for the remainder of the year? BK: Our year end tour is with the Parlotones so come and have a watch, they&#8217;re all big out door events. Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram @gangsofballet.And do you have any plans set in stone yet for 2016? &#8211; recording and hopefully overseas!!