Nashville Tennessee husband and wife musical duo, Neely, will be gracing the shores of SA this April and are set to perform several exclusive shows in and around Durban. This enigmatic musical couple emerged onto the scene with a grit and energy that integrates the eclectic musical soundscape of Nashville into an array of well-crafted Country\Rock anthems, featuring spine chilling harmonies and hook-laden lyrics. Backed by a tight, hard-hitting line-up of dynamic, high-powered musicians, Neely is a modern rock force to be reckoned with. The Weekly Gazette caught up with frontman, Jeremy Neely, ahead of their tour to chat about life and music. TGWG: The first thing most bands are asked, but which never ceases to have its relevance, is where did it all begin? So, how did Neely form? Were you married before the band formed? JN: Kaci and I were married in 1996 but it wasn t until sometime in 2001 that I discovered that she could sing. I remember sitting in the living room practicing for a performance when she came up beside me and began harmonizing. I just about fell out of my chair! Five years we were married and I had no clue! Yes, let the man jokes begin.TWG: You have quite a diverse sound. It is very difficult to box you into one specific genre. How would you describe your sound? JN: A lot of people try to put labels on us. Of course our elevator pitch mentions Daughtry, 3 Doors Down, and Evanescene. However, many other reviewers have thrown in voices like Toby Keith among others. The honest answer is I spent 10 to 15 years of my life trying to be just like every other famous artist out there. How they sounded vocally, their guitar tones, how they looked\ dressed, and it was exhausting. Then in 2008 a producer sat in a room with us preparing to record a song. We sang the song, charted it out, and eventually went into the booth to record the vocals. I barely sang three words when he cut me off and said, What in the world was that? That s not you! That s not the Neely sound that I heard out here. That was the day I found my voice and from there our whole sound/style began to happen. It was like a big sigh came over our lives where we could just be us; and that is the diverse Neely sound.TWG: Where do you draw inspiration from both musically and lyrically? JN: A lot of our inspiration comes from deep emotional places whether that be joyful or painful. Many of our songs are our story, but sometimes I ll hear a story that I connect with on a deep emotional level and it moves me in such a fashion that I have to write about it. When you sit in on our acoustic concert you ll get a great taste of this, because ultimately, I m a story teller. Yes, I love to have a full band and rock out but my ultimate passion is to sit down on a stool with an acoustic guitar and tell the story that inspired this art. To answer your question, people inspire me. Their life stories, their plights, their triumphs, joys, and pains. The tricky part is being ready to take it all down when the inspiration comes!TWG: Your song, Everything I am, has very powerful lyrics. What was the inspiration behind the song? JN: Everything I Am is quite literally my artistic retelling of the story of Mary and the Alabaster Jar. I don t know that I can adequately describe that moment in time to you but in my minds eye I could see it so clearly. This woman was carrying so much hurt and yet had this thread of hope that she was acting on. It was this beautiful yet painfully intense moment. I had to write about it and the words just flowed so quickly! In the end I just hope that it moves people to not only see their worth in the eyes of our Creator but to see through all the outside clutter of our fellow man to see their worth in the eyes of our Creator as well.TWG: Your daughters appear in most of your videos and you seem to be a close knit family. Do you think music has strengthened the family dynamic? JN: We are a very close knit family. Honestly our daughters have a love/hate relationship with all of this. They are huge fans of music yet they have lived, firsthand, the sacrifices that go into being a full time musician. For instance, in 2013 and 2014 we were only at home for a total of three months each year. That means for nine months each year we do not sleep in our own beds. We are always in front of promoters, fans, etc which means we cannot afford to have a bad day . With that said, this lifestyle has made us rely on one another to an end that has brought us closer than we could ever imagine.TWG: Your song, Complete (The Wedding Song) is quite a sentimental song. Could you elaborate? JN: Complete was actually written for Kaci s oldest sister s wedding day. The song is very sentimental because Kelli, Kaci s sister, was not married until she was 35-years of age. Not only that but she, as well as her husband, kept themselves pure until marriage. The uncommon nature of all of this moved me and I had to honour their commitment to one another in a grand way. We even kept the song private, to symbolise the purity they strove for, until their wedding day.TWG: You will be touching down in South Africa soon and performing shows across the country. What are you most looking forward to with this tour? JN: Where do I start? On a professional level we are excited to work and tour with some amazingly talented people such as Mark Beling and Aaron Nel just to name a few. On a personal level, we are excited to experience beautiful scenery. I ve been told we will take a break for a Safari, as well as a couple days in the surf. Ultimately I cannot wait to meet Niel and Gerhard, the two men who found our music via Twitter, had a dream to bring us over to South Africa, and they made it happen. These are extraordinary men.TWG: You will also be shooting footage for your upcoming video here in SA. Could you elaborate a bit on that? JN: Yes, we are so excited about this! We have a song called Colorblind that has been inspired by the people of South Africa. When we found out that we would be touring South Africa, I pitched the idea to record the radio version of the song, as well as shoot the music video in South Africa. Through history South Africans have endured in a way that has inspired me on a deep emotional level. I sincerely hope that the song and the video will honour the people of South Africa.TWG: Will you do a return tour in the near future? JN: At this moment in time we are looking at a return tour in 2016. No dates at this time as we hope this tour will perhaps be a stepping stone that opens bigger opportunities in 2016.TWG: What else is on the cards for Neely for 2015? JN: We are hoping to record and release more music this year, as well as some new music videos. I m really working hard on a couple of new YouTube video series that will help people to get to know us better. 2015 is becoming our year of International travel. Kaci and I will be touring the UK in August. Other than that, we will continue touring the United States and working hard to make excellent music.