Music circles regard the name Stephanie Pais with much respect. This local trumpet player and musician is certainly no stranger to the local music scene and has managed to establish herself firmly in the industry with her amazing talent and passion. Pais has travelled to various countries across the world and performed in international festivals in Thailand and Austria with the KwaZulu Natal Youth Wind Band. Later, Pais decided to follow her dream of becoming a professional trumpet player and performed as a trumpet player on many occasions with the KwaZulu -Natal Philharmonic Orchestra before branching out to make her own original trumpet music. Pais has just recently released her second album and has been performing across the province to critical acclaim. The Westville Weekly Gazette caught up with this talented musician to chat about her musical career.TWWG: When and how did you first start playing the trumpet? SP: I started playing the trumpet in 1993 when I was 10-years old. The KZNPO performed at my school (Roseway Waldorf) and I was hooked on the trumpet from that moment onwards.TWWG: At what point did you realise this was what you wanted to pursue? SP: I knew right from when I was 10-years old that I would pursue a career in music. It took me many more years to find my niche and to pluck up the courage to start making my own music but I always knew there was no other route for me. It has always been music.TWWG: What have been some of your personal greatest accomplishments? SP: When I was growing up I toured internationally with the KZN Youth Wind Band under the baton of Werner Dunnewitz. One of my favourite memories is touring Thailand and winning the International Youth Music Festival Award with the band. Since then, going on to make, write, record and produce my own music has by far been my biggest achievement to date. There is nothing more satisfying as an artist than creating your own original music.TWWG: Your song, Footprints in the Dust, was written to create awareness on Rhino Poaching. Could you elaborate how the idea came about and how the songwriting process evolved around this concept? SP: Lawrence Anthony, a very special friend of mine made leaps and bounds in the world of conservation and in particular saving the Rhino. He had a great love for music and we spent many hours talking about the subject. He was always upgrading and tweaking the sound system in his Landrover! I found it fascinating and wondered what the Elephant and Rhino on his game reserve thought of the music that oozed out of the windows as he drove by. Sadly, Lawrence passed on 2 March, 2012. It was at his funeral that it suddenly dawned on me that I needed to contribute to his legacy and do my bit for conservation in South Africa. I was no conservationist by any means and had no idea how I could help. After some thought I realised that I could use music to make a difference and so I wrote the song Footprints In The Dust to help raise funds to save the Rhino. Fifty percent of the proceeds from this song will be donated to The Lawrence Anthony Earth Organization. I think if Lawrence were alive today, he would have been over the moon at my effort to help and make a difference.TWWG: You have collaborated with other artists in a few of your songs. Who are they and how did this collaboration influence your sound? SP: So far I have only collaborated with the producer of both my albums, Lance de Leeuw. His musical style, voice and personality had a huge influence on the music we made. Together our musical influences and lives came together to produce the music that you hear in the two albums that I have released so far.TWWG: What are on the cards for you for 2015? SP: Up next is up and coming album, The Collaboration Project . It is a massive project in which I intend to collaborate with many different artists both locally and internationally. It really is going to be a smacker of an album with many different tastes, personalities and flavours involved. The plan is to do a really big live album launch and involve as many of the artists as possible.Just for fun TWWG: How do you unwind? SP: There is nothing better than sitting on my couch with my dogs and a cup of tea in hand. I find nothing else relaxes and unwinds me more than doing this. Stitch and Ruby s unconditional love make a horrible day disappear in seconds. I post about these guys on Instagram all the time. So if you wanna see them find me there.TWWG: What are your fondest childhood memories? SP: Wow, now we re going back in time. My fondest childhood memories would have to be touring internationally with the KZN Youth Wind Band.TWWG: Who do you look up to and admire? SP: I admire many people on this planet. Mostly I admire people who make a difference and are true to themselves. I recently wrote a blog about Louis Armstrong and how he influenced me. If you have not read it I suggest you do. It s a good read and you can find it here: So yes, Louis Armstrong although no longer with us is someone I will always admire and look up to. There are another two artists I admire greatly, David Carus and Chill.E.B both international Hip Hop artists for the way they are making a difference to the world with their music. I admire a lot of local talent in South Africa and really enjoy the music of MiCasa, DJ Black Coffee, Liduideep, Freshlyground and my all time favourite Mango Groove, but of all I must admit that I admire my mom and dad most for their strength and for all the effort they put into bringing me up and making my life a happy one.TWWG: What side of you does the public never get to see? SP: Shu, now you re asking big questions, to reveal or not to reveal that is the question! I guess my answer would be that the side of me the public never gets to see is the side I don t want them to see. Not because I m hiding anything but more because I like to have a positive influence on those around me and so choose not to let people know when I am going through a rough time. Life in the world of independent music is not always easy and yes there are times when I want to throw in the towel and give up, there are times when I wonder why the hell I do this, there are times when I wonder how I am going to come out at the end of the month. I go through the very emotions and life challenges that most people go through. It is my handling of these challenges that makes me different. Instead of throwing in the towel or giving up I make a decision to continue and make a success out of my life. I ignore the negative voices in my head and get on with it. Life is a choice. Life is what you make of it. And that is why I make a concerted effort to spread a positive vibe.TWWG: What are you listing to at the moment? SP: I am listening to all sorts of new and interesting music from all the artists that want to be a part of The Collaboration Project. I am getting some real gems coming in. There is just so much talent in South Africa and internationally. Listening to new music will be my life for the next few months as I prepare for the new album. There are still a few slots available for The Collaboration Project. So if you are interested in getting involved please email me at with a short bio, pic and link to your music.TWWG: If you could perform alongside any musician, alive or dead, who would it be? SP: Definitely Louis Armstrong!*You can catch Stephanie performing live at the Shongweni Farmers Market every Saturday morning where you can pick up a hard copy of both albums*.TWWG: Who do you look up to and admire? SP: I admire many people on this planet. Mostly I admire people who make a difference and are true to themselves. I recently wrote a blog about Louis Armstrong and how he influenced me. If you have not read it I suggest you do. It s a good read and you can find it here: www.stephaniepaismusic.com/ louis-armstrong, So yes, Louis Armstrong, although no longer with us, is someone I will always admire and look up to. There are another two artists I admire greatly, David Carus and Chill.E.B, both international Hip Hop artists, for the way they are making a difference to the world with their music. I admire a lot of local talent in South Africa and really enjoy the music of MiCasa, DJ Black Coffee, Liduideep, Freshlyground and my all time favourite Mango Groove, but of all I must admit that I admire my mom and dad most for their strength and for all the effort they put into bringing me up and making my life a happy one.TWWG: What side of you does the public never get to see? SP: Shu, now you re asking big questions, to reveal or not to reveal that is the question! I guess my answer would be that the side of me the public never gets to see is the side I don t want them to see. Not because I m hiding anything but more because I like to have a positive influence on those around me and so choose not to let people know when I am going through a rough time. Life in the world of independent music is not always easy and yes there are times when I want to throw in the towel and give up, there are times when I wonder why the hell I do this, there are times when I wonder how I am going to come out at the end of the month. I go through the very emotions and life challenges that most people go through. It is my handling of these challenges that makes me different. Instead of throwing in the towel or giving up, I make a decision to continue and make a success out of my life. I ignore the negative voices in my head and get on with it. Life is a choice. Life is what you make of it. And that is why I make a concerted effort to spread a positive vibe.TWWG: What are you listening to at the moment? SP: I am listening to all sorts of new and interesting music from all the artists that want to be a part of The Collaboration Project. I am getting some real gems coming in. There is just so much talent in South Africa and internationally. Listening to new music will be my life for the next few months as I prepare for the new album. There are still a few slots available for The Collaboration Project. So if you are interested in getting involved please email me at music@stephaniepais.com with a short bio, pic and link to your music.TWWG: If you could perform alongside any musician, alive or dead, who would it be? SP: Definitely Louis Armstrong!*You can catch Stephanie performing live at the Shongweni Farmers Market every Saturday morning, where you can pick up a hard copy of both albums*.