The first thing you will notice when speaking to local trail runner, Eric Ngubane, is his gentle nature. This exceptional athlete has managed to remain humble and passionate despite the ever growing list of achievements under his belt. He approaches running with the same wide-eyed awe and vigour one would expect from a first-time trail runner, not a seasoned pro who has just won the Three Cranes Challenge and has been selected to represent South Africa at the World Trail Championships taking place on 30 May in Lake Annecy, France. And yet, perhaps it is his heart that defines Ngubane as a runner and pushes him to achieve such incredible success. The Weekly Gazette managed to sit down and chat with this runner about his career, goals and ambitions.TWG: Where did it all begin for you in terms of your running career? EN: I started running during my early school years where I did cross country. When I finished school I did stop running while I was looking for a job and I also got very involved with soccer, but I eventually came back to it. Our school principal was the one who actually brought me back to running. He used to try and help me and two other athletes from our school by transporting us to races and helping us. I grew up in Cato Ridge and when I came down to Durban, I decided to focus completely on running.TWG: What do you enjoy the most about trial running? EN: It keeps my mind fresh and it is such an individual sport. I love nature and being able to see such amazing views on my runs. You also don&#8217;t know what is going to come next and I like that challenge. Trail running is a fun family sport. TWG: You were originally a road runner. What got you into trail running? EN: When I was training, I used to hear the guys say how trail running was a good way to cross train, so I tried it out and ended up loving the trail more than the road.TWG: What achievements are you personally most proud of?EN: Winning the 100k Ultra Trail in Cape Town last year. I could not believe it was me running that event. It was such a big achievement.TWG: You have been selected to represent South Africa at the World Trail Championships taking place on 30 May in Lake Annecy, France. What are you hoping to achieve? EN: I want to win the world champs. I want to bring home that medal, but I can&#8217;t do that without having the focus and respecting the distance and also having the support of the country behind me. That is my dream, but it is not just about me, it is about the people putting their support behind me.TWG: Do you have a favourite trail? EN: Definitely 3 Cranes. The view is beautiful.TWG: What has been your most remarkable experience? EN: The Mont Aux Sources Wild Series. It was such a hectic event. I have never had to climb on a chain ladder before. I honestly never thought I would have to ever do that. It was a big accomplishment to have won that three times in a row.TWG: How do you unwind? EN: I enjoy water sports. I read magazines and play with my two boys (aged 7 and 4).TWG: Who do you look up to and admire? EN: For me, it all comes down to runners like Bruce Fordyce, who would run the comrades when there was no prize money involved. Trail running is all about the heart and love of the sport. Not about the money and I admire athletes who do it for the passion.TWG: The Domino Foundation have been assisting you on your journey as an athlete. What are your thoughts on this? EN: I take my hat off to them for what they do for the community. For the last few weeks they have really helped me, working with me and nurturing my talent and I really appreciate that. *There will be a special fundraising trail run to assist Ngubane raise some much needed funds to assist with expenses involved in his upcoming trip to France. The event will take place on 22 March at The Burman Bush. There will be an 8km and 4km run and runners of all fitness levels are urged to come along and attend. Online entries can be completed on www.roag.co.za