TWWG: How did it all begin for you? How did you get involved with ScienCentre? CP: Well, I completed my BA in Science. I did my undergrad studies at UKZN and my postgrad studies at the University of Cape Town. After that I moved back home to Pietermaritzburg and decided I wanted to do something different&#8230; to give back to the community. When I was at UCT I was involved in a volunteers programme teaching computer skills. So it was quite by chance that, at the time, the Old Mutual ScienCentre was looking for an Education Manager. I applied for the position and got the job in 2007. Since then there have been many changes over the years and I have remodeled and redeveloped the programme. Today we see roughly 180 000 people a year so we are making leaps and bounds in the right direction.TWWG: When did you take over as CEO? CP: I officially took over in 2012 but I was the General Manager since 2010.TWWG: What do you hope to achieve with ScienCentre? CP: Right now we are focusing on our move. We have been doing so much work with our outreach projects but we really miss having a home. My aim is to be in that new home soon and to create dynamic exhibits. I also want to reach the two million disadvantaged children in our province, who don t necessarily have the resources or equipment. We want to leave a legacy behind.TWWG: Many members of the public might not be fully aware of all the work ScienCentre does within the community. Could you briefly explain what ScienCentre aims to achieve? CP: Our focus is to create Science literacy and awareness in the community. We try to empower people and children with Science education by teaching Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths. I firmly believe that education can make such a difference in the lives of our children and we have such an awesome team of professionals at ScienCentre who go out to these children in rural and disadvantaged communities and teach them. Our mission statement is that we are trying to create a culture of learning and that is what we are trying to accommodate.TWWG: What do you love about your job? CP: We have the ability to evolve and to be innovative in how we teach the children.TWWG: As a young, female CEO, do you ever encounter any difficulties in the corporate world? CP: There are moments of difficulty. I have learnt that you need to surround yourself with the right people who have an open opinion of the world. It isn t always easy. There are instances of prejudice before I even walk into a room and I do have to work harder but I also have a lot more to show for it. Your approach to life has to have balance. You need to realise that people are three dimensional and you need to learn to choose your battles. For me, my goal is to try and spread education to the children, not to be fighting. It won t make a difference.Up close and personal TWWG: What are your personal greatest achievements? CP: In my work, my greatest achievement was being able to get up from multiple falls in terms of funding for the centre. It became a bit of an in joke but I was always saying let s make this work. I had the ability to see the bigger picture.TWWG: You have become quite the attraction to local media. Could you tell us more about that? CP: In the 2013 December issue they ran their Awesome Women feature in which I appeared. That same year I was also featured in the Mail and Guardian s #1 of 200 South Africans You Should Meet TWWG: How do you unwind from work? CP: I enjoy spending time with my hubby, Rowan, being active, getting out and just doing things together. I really enjoy cooking and trying different dishes out. I love throwing dinner parties and trying out new places to eat. Durban is just so dynamic and amazing. There is so much to do. TWWG: What is your favourite dish? CP: Sushi&#8230; to eat. I can t cook it. I also love curry and one of my favourite restaurants is Spiga.TWWG: How did you and your hubby meet? CP: We met at University. We were Chemistry prac partners and were friends for quite a while before we started dating. We knew each other six years before we got married and have now been married for seven years. I believe that, as a couple, you have to grow together and experience things together. Rowan has a good sense of humour and is absolutely supportive to me.TWWG: What is your favourite movie? CP: I love comedy. It is nice to have a break from everything being so serious all the time. That said, probably one of my all-time favourites was Shawshank Redemption.TWWG: Where is your favourite holiday destination? CP: Cape Town is beautiful. But my best holiday was when my husband took me to Paris last year. It was so wonderful and breathtaking.TWWG: Who do you look up to? CP: My parents have always inspired me to be who I am but to also make a positive difference in the lives of others. They taught me that we need to make an impact in the community and not just live in a me world. TWWG: What advice do you have for others hoping to follow in your footsteps? CP: Follow your dreams but also know that you need to think of them as ever changing. Don t always have this perfect impression of what your life is going to be like. Also, if you ever feel like you have been kicked down, you need to get up and get back on that bike.