Former Durbanite, Candice Abrahams, is a well-known face around social circles. From running her own fashion and beauty blog, Basics by Candice Abrahams, to being a semi finalist in the upcoming Mrs SA, she is a humble and lovable person who manages to juggle her busy career as well as find time to post selfies with her hubby and kids.The Weekly Gazette&#8217;s Se-Anne Rall caught up with the busy fashionista to find out more about who she is behind the scenesTWG: You are? CA: Candice Van Leeve now married to Ismail Abrahams, so I am Candice AbrahamsTWG: Where did you grow up? CA: Grew up in Wentworth and when I was 10-years old we moved to Brighton Beach, Bluff.TWG: Describe your childhood? CA: I was very busy as a child, started modelling and cashing in on my own cheques at the age of 5, I really didn&#8217;t enjoy modelling, I would much prefer to play in the garden with my old clothes and half the neighbourhood! It was only when I was 13 did I realise how much confidence I had gained and grown as an individual. I started travelling locally doing shoots and fashions and that&#8217;s where my passion for the industry was born.TWG: What kind of child were you (outspoken, playful, a book worm)? CA: I&#8217;ve always been the &#8220;class clown&#8221; the moment the teacher would leave the class, I would get out my seat and start acting like characters from certain movies, ha ha!TWG: What did you pursue after school? CA : Public Relations.TWG: When did you take up modelling and why? CA: I started modelling at 5-year old, scouts would always stop my mum and I asking if I was a model and that my mom should sign me up to an agency which she eventually did. My first modelling agent was Leigh Downing.TWG: You&#8217;re a semi-finalist for Mrs SA. What&#8217;s that like? CA: Wow! What an amazing experience! I feel truly blessed to have made it as a Mrs South Africa semi-finalist. The Mrs South Africa Journey is about Women Empowerment and self growth as a married woman. As contestants we&#8217;ve been taken out of our comfort zones to build networks and attain sponsorships, we also get to work with CANSA which is the official charity of the Mrs South Africa Pagaent and help make a difference. On 24 April, at Emperors Palace, The top 25 finalists will be announced at this fabulous Gala dinner and all tickets sold proceed straight to CANSA.TWG: Why did you enter? CA: When I heard that the Mrs South Africa Pagaent was about women empowerment, I was so curious to give it a go. I&#8217;ve always wanted to make a change and I believe that if we can encourage and enhance our kids of today we already have a brighter future. My campaign is about turning girls with dreams into women with vision via, grooming, educating and motivating. TWG: What have you learnt about yourself on this journey, thus far? CA: That my ability to do greater is limitless!TWG: You&#8217;re a wife and a mum, how do you manage your time? CA: Balance is key, I have a very supportive husband who is very involved. We really are a team! We also make time for family activities once a week, it&#8217;s very important.TWG: Is your family supportive of your decision to enter Mrs SA? CA: My family and friends are extremely supportive! They really are my support system.TWG: What else do you do in your spare time (if you even have any!!)? CA: I absolutely love boxing, it&#8217;s a really cool stress outlet. I also love blogging about fashion and interior decor.TWG: What are your passions? CA: Giving! As Dr Steve Maraboli says &#8220;Every single time you help somebody stand up, you are helping humanity rise&#8221; my number one passion is to give disadvantaged girls the opportunity to rise and be great, I am focussing on giving girls a day filled with love, grooming and empowerment for when we feel special and confident we feel powerful.TWG: What are your pet peeves? CA: I can&#8217;t handle disrespectfullness!TWG: How do you stay motivated? CA: My kids keep motivated, I just want to be the best for them!Quickfire&#8230;TWG: Morning or afternoon person? CA: Afternoon!TWG: Worst habit? CA: Over-washing my handsTWG: Favourite lipstick colour? CA: Speed Dial by MACTWG: Jeans and takkies or skirts and heels? CA: Both!TWG: Tea or coffee? CA: Coffee addictTWG: Advice to girls who want to explore the industry&#8230; CA: I definitely feel that modelling has opened many doors for me, it&#8217;s taught me to be confident and graceful, but at the same time it&#8217;s also made me the strong woman that I am today, life is not easy and people will always turn you down or say negative things to try discourage you. Don&#8217;t give up! There were many times all I got was a no! I pursued and stayed focused on my goal and achieved it! Always stay true to your beliefs, be original and don&#8217;t forget to have fun!Vote for Candice Abrahams to secure her place in the Top 25 as a finalist by liking the Mrs South Africa Facebook page and then scrolling to her picture. Supporters can also SMS Candice Abrahams to 35959 as many times as they like!